Wes Todd  0:00  
In such a way that that work is being done. So distributed, We didn't have a 
central place to. So we were looking at like, Does GitHub have a good way to do 
a search that we could direct people to that would have the tags from all the 
repos that matter. But then we have repos that like are in the orgs, but aren't 
maybe focuses. So like, do the tags and those repos count. Anyway, there's a 
bunch of little discussions around how we want to manage that. So what we 
landed on was we needed a tool that pulled them all together for us. So that is 
what I went ahead and built, I posted a link to the page in the Express issue 
for that. So I Oh, no, is the issue in here for that. But I'm not seeing the

link. Right.

Michael Dawson  0:49  
It's The Express GitHub IO status board.

Wes Todd  0:52  
So Yeah, that's the link that is the The result of this, I was going to post a 
link also to my like, sort of description

to find that right now.

dominykas  1:09  
There it is.

LJHarb  1:11  
So So the basic idea,

Wes Todd  1:13  
I served the purpose of Express really well. But I think also sort of extends 
to what we're doing with a bunch of different projects that are unrelated. I 
also saw, I just posted a link to my comment there. I also think it applies a 
little bit to the work that the open, Jess FJS Foundation is doing, where 
there's a ton of different projects with things in different states. But 
there's a lot of work that needs to be tracked across all the different repos. 
So The goal here was to pull those tags, so I posted some screenshots, but you 
can also click the link and go, you know, it's very much a work in progress. 
So, you know, don't judge too harshly. But The idea is, this is infrastructure 
list. So that was I think one of the key requirements I wanted to set Was, it 
could be run straight off GitHub. So with GitHub actions that made it a little 
bit easier, but the first iteration was it just ran it on my local machine, Did 
the index job and then push to a GitHub Pages branch, that, you know, it's not 
real time. So with get up actions, I've got it so that it will run every two 
hours, and it does a re index and then rebuild the GitHub Pages branch. I'm 
pulling in a bunch of random things here that, you know, like I have this top 
contributors list, we could discuss, you know, I think what what value people 
see in showing here, but I think the big thing that targeted this issue was 
these tags on the left, so we have help on it and discuss are ones that were 
already existing and express and all the repos, we would probably want to 
standardize on one. You know, I don't know, there's two subtle differences. And 
why we did this up on it is is actually like a PR should be open from this. So 
that's more like good first issue. So I'd like to actually transition us from 
this to good first issue. But as it stands today, we don't have that. And the 
discuss is more about like, these are ideas, or these are maybe issues that 
people are having that we'd like people who are not necessarily super familiar 
with the project, you can still come in here and pitch in maybe if it's just 
you know, analyzing the ideas that are being presented and giving an opinion. 
And then we have meetings, obviously for EC meetings, but then top priorities, 
the top 10. So as I think the version I've built here only has two labeled, but 
we're starting to roll out those labels on more of the issues. We're waiting on 
one for TypeScript support that Blake Emily was supposed to open, but I think 
hasn't yet, because that is one of our other top issues. Yeah, And so So this 
is just this is an idea. If, you know, it's I haven't pushed on this PKGJS 
organization, I'd be happy to, you know, if people want to collaborate or have 
you know, input and, and ways and directions we could take this would make it 
more valuable to this group specifically, or if there's other, you know, other 
projects that have a similar structure to express that, that could see a lot of 
gain out of centralizing the work so that they can, you know, direct new users 
to one place instead of Oh, go read through the, you know, for orgs and 40 
repos and get up to date on all the issues that are being tracked. You know, 
so, so this is a start. And then we have some plans for writing some automation 
on automatically tagging things with these specific tags. So we're going to 
write the next thing I'm going to work on now that I've finished this as a 
GitHub action that looks at new issues, and prs, automatically tags them with 
things like needs triage. And then we had some ideas and express on how we want 
to manage that, you know, I don't know if that is something we'd want to 
propose here is like a practice, but I can, we haven't written it up yet. So I 
hesitate to go too much into it. But the idea is, basically, we'd have a list 
of a whitelisted list of users who can triage and if they make specific 
comments, we would then add labels to those comments, those, those labels being 
the ones that show up in the status board. So you can say like, you know, needs 
maintainer attention, or, you know, stuff like that would help us get more 
people involved without necessarily needing them to have commit access right 
away with obviously love to move them to commit access. But, you know, on 
Express, we're a little bit more cautious with that, since the impact of the 
project is so large. So anyway, so that's sort of a synopsis here

Michael Dawson  5:43  
is quite interesting. And I think one of the key things is it pulls together a 
whole bunch of different repos, right? So get any one

Wes Todd  5:50  
repo, you already have this, right? So if you if you have one project, repo, 
and that's it, you know, that's already solved by GitHub. This is specifically 
for the use case where there's lots of work being done in different repos. And 
there's a need to centralize the, the status, you know, of the of the project 
And that

Michael Dawson  6:10  
way, because I mean, even for like the node repo, we have a lot of different 
repos. And so you don't necessarily get a, you know, the unified view. So it's 
quite interesting.

Wes Todd  6:21  
To Jory on this on the foundation side, and she was saying one of the most 
valuable things would just be centralizing the list of meetings, you know, and 
all the issues. So all the docs and the, you know, meeting notes, you know, she 
was saying, it's really hard for her to manage that across all the projects in 
the open, you know, Jess Foundation, node, similarly, and the package 
maintenance Working Group, as soon as we start those phases, you know, the 
first phase is just a couple of projects. But as soon as we have 30, projects 
on board, managing the work cross there, I think is going to be a chore. And I 
think this might be a solution for that.

Michael Dawson  6:58  
Okay, even the meetings like if they're basically based on a tag, like our auto 
generated meetings, there's, you can go to our calendar, but the ones that are 
actually like the issues, again, you'd have to go to each individual repo to 
find out Oh, so it's actually it would be it sounds interesting. So that 
definitely sounds good to see if this is like something that at the open jazz 
level can be rolled out across the other projects as well. For specifically for 
like the package maintenance side, I guess what we want to thin look at it say, 
you know, how do we start to use this information to try and get more of the, 
you know, the people who showed interest in helping out with packages involved? 
And next

Edgar  7:44  
question about the top issues is that the latest issue from each of those tags 
are, how is it? Mark is top

Wes Todd  7:53  
it's a work in progress, we got a lot of work to do. So technically, this is 
the sort order as by as per the level DB database, so I have no put no sorting 
into this at all. It's just I'm stuffing them in level DB, and whatever order 
they come out, then I take the first three. So we would probably want to make 
that a lot better.

Edgar  8:12  
Maybe like a 10. It says how important it is or something or number of 
comments, or I don't know something? Yeah, some metric.

Wes Todd  8:19  
Yeah, no, I agree. Yeah, I think

I think a sort of composite approach might be best, because I think newness is 
good here. But also, activity.

Yeah, yeah. Anyway, I'd be open,

if you want to collaborate on on what would be the best way to show this. Maybe 
we could, you could open an issue on that repo, and we can start discussing it. 
So good. Sounds like

Michael Dawson  8:43  
top priority. I don't know if there's going to be 10, it doesn't matter so 
much. Because those aren't the latest ones. Those are the ones which the 
Express TC has tagged to be ones they would like to see progress on versus the 
latest issue somebody opened or whatever, right? Yeah. Because I can even see 
like the, there could be a very active issue, but it might not be the priority 
issue for the Express team. Right.

Edgar  9:10  
I agree.

Michael Dawson  9:12  
So I think it's important to make sure that like we what we do, If we focus and 
raise awareness, and like try and encourage people that it is focused on here, 
the things that really the Express team will will in this case, will say, Hey, 
this is great that we're having more help on these verses. There's a huge 
discussion on this, but I'm not really interested kind of thing.

Edgar  9:32  
I think maybe maybe more than one, but

maybe more than one kind of section or something like that, especially as we 
talk about that node, or open JS level, where it's like the most used tag, or 
something like that, you know, like tag cloud style, where it's like, it seems 
that a lot of people are having problems with x tag type of issues. Maybe 
that's a larger opportunity at the open JS level, to come up with some sort of 
broader solution that helps the community at large kind of a thing. But This is 
awesome. And I look forward to like, digging in and thinking about other ways 
to approach organizing them.

Michael Dawson  10:16  
Does it make sense for top priority to be at the top? Yeah.

Wes Todd  10:22  
of the time. So what this is doing is just looping the the items in the in the 
level up. So they're coming out in an order. And and this is very valid 
feedback. You know, please feel free to open an issue and or go solve it in the 
code, because it's, you know, over there accepting prs, It's not very clean. So 
like I said, Don't judge too harshly. But Thank you for

Michael Dawson  10:51  
right. Now trying to click on release button.

Wes Todd  10:55  
Well, yeah, this is this is the year in the screenshot, though, if I Yes. Okay. 
That does just click through. Yep. If you go to the actual board.

Michael Dawson  11:03  
Sorry. I'm just trying to get back to that now. A little.

Wes Todd  11:07  
Just down a little bit, I think from where you are.

Michael Dawson  11:10  
There's the link, right? This guy? Oh, yeah. And I should be able to just click 
that. So If we go there. And we say, I'm just looking like, what concretely Can 
we try and points? You know, we had a number of people who showed interest, 
like, is this something that we should now can now say, hey, here are the 
things that, you know, if you have time, can you go try it help and look at?

Wes Todd  11:37  
Yeah, so we still have some work to do this was to centralize the tags, we 
still have some work to do in getting more of the tags on the issues. And so we 
discussed, you know, open source sometimes goes a little bit slow. And we have 
the plan. Now, we just have to execute on some of the ideas. So it is still a 
little bit light here the discussion and help one that we've used for a long 
time. So those ones, If you click on the header That shows more than just the 
top three, Oh, maybe not. What did I do wrong here, maybe go back and click on 
just top issues. Sorry. You know, this is my weekend project. Okay, this is all 
of them. So This would maybe be the page to start with, if we wanted to link 
people to, again, open to like, better ways to present this because it's just a 
big long list. And that's not super helpful.

Michael Dawson  12:28  
So It's great. So is it? Is it? Do you think it's, you know, do Do you think 
there's, it's worth waiting a little bit longer before we try and go out and 
say, Hey, here's what you know, here's the things that could really use some 
help? Or is it worth you know, starting with what's there, I just want to get a 
feel for

Wes Todd  12:46  
I'm, you know, I'm I'm not afraid of showing incomplete work here on this 
particular tool, if it gets helped to the issues that are tagged here. So the 
issues are valid and real and ready to go. This UI of it is you know, that the 
only thing that's may be not ready. See, there you go broken link. Again, like 
I said, totally work in progress.

I need to fix those links, apparently, really not ready to

local to, we'll check

Michael Dawson  13:19  
in next week to see if, you know, if it's time to start to try in and say okay, 
we've got a list of concrete work we'd like people to help out with. Now Let's 
start asking people to do that. Right. Yep.

Wes Todd  13:34  
Yeah, that sounds good. And if in the meantime, if anybody wants to start 
participating in that, you know, that will make it move a lot faster. I'm, you 
know, quite busy. So

Edgar  13:44  
yeah, in terms of what I've seen, especially like under the discuss, tag, It's 
pretty common for conversation to have ended and the tickets just to not have 
been like, automatically closed or anything like that. So it might be helpful 
for whoever wants to take it on to start by implementing or putting together a 
PR an issue ticket for implementing something that Wes was talking about the 
other day, about adding some kind of automatic ticket closer or issue closer. 
So if somebody wants to help out with that, It may not be a ticket that's 
actually on this board here. But that might be something that would that would 
help to shorten these lists A little bit.

Wes Todd  14:27  
Yeah, absolutely. And if somebody wants to open up that ticket, I will then or 
that issue, I will tag it as a temporary because that's definitely one of them, 
you'd have to So the issue here is that you have to go to all of these repos 
and do it right. So that they're spread out everywhere. So any, anybody who 
takes the song is going to have to do a cross repo effort, right? They're going 
to open up probably, you know, 30 hours to do that. Which is great. I mean, if 
somebody wants take that on that would be that would be phenomenal.

Michael Dawson  14:54  
Is that something that's automated?

Glenn Hinks  14:57  
Oh, yeah.

Wes Todd  14:58  
Okay, that would work too. Yeah, probably just curious. Like,

Michael Dawson  15:00  
you know, that would also then be a handy tool that says, hey, you're, you 
know, one of the repos just run this thing. And you'll get a PR that says, 
Please, that enables the auto close bond, or whatever it is, as long as it 
doesn't require, like more manual work to make it happen.

Wes Todd  15:19  
Yeah, definitely.

Yeah, that would be great. A great tool,

Edgar  15:24  
which board Do you think that would go on, like an open JS sort of a ticket, or 
like, Express ecosystem ticket is there like one Express repo that applies to 
all of the other sibling discussions

Wes Todd  15:37  
is sort of where we keep a lot of those conversations, If you wanted to start 
there, and that would be a good spot to keep track of the work.

Michael Dawson  15:46  
It's either that or this repo, we could have something in our board that says, 
you know, here's one of the things that we've identified that is going to be 
useful for Express and beyond. You know,

Wes Todd  15:56  
somebody so my only concern with this repo is that the if it's so far beyond 
Yes, or the specific goal of unexpressed, we need to get that rolled out. I 
would like to at least have one in that discussions with your post so that 
Doug, and the other main trainers are aware that this is something we're moving 
forward with the comment, Make sense? They won't, they won't pay they, they 
might be paying attention to this repo, but I wouldn't count on it. So

Michael Dawson  16:27  
right? quicker, you're thinking of doing that, like an issue in this repo 
within link to an issue in the Express repo saying, and here's the first one 
we're going to, here's the one, we're going to test it out with West Side, This 
would be great.

Edgar  16:40  
Like a scope, I can happily agreed to.

Darcy Clarke  16:44  
Okay, awesome.

Michael Dawson  16:46  
feedback, and then maybe we can figure out is like, Hey, is this something we 
publicize at the open JS level as a tool that's available to the projects and 
whoever else? Actually, or actually, you know, I could just see like, you know, 
as part of our package maintenance effort here, we want to publicize tools to 
make it easier for the, the maintainer is, and if it's, you know, obviously, if 
you've got a bunch of repose, if you could just go somewhere and say, please 
give me a PR to enable the auto close bought for this, this and this one that 
sounds like it's it fits that bill. So.

Wes Todd  17:18  
So in a weird way, this status board could be a launching ground for that, too, 
because one of the things you have to do to set this up is list all of the 
repos. Right. And this pulls what, like a bunch of metadata about what type of 
repo so like, for example, you're not going to submit a auto close issue box? 
Well, no, and articles issue by word, but like things like updating, you know, 
other code related things you'd want to look at, like, Is it a, Is it a JS 
package? Right? Is it a Is it you know, what? What qualities about it? So for 
like, Express, if you wanted to, you could pull the Jason list of projects for 
here to do as your your, you know, tooling input, Right?

Michael Dawson  18:00  
Yeah. You could have a dashboard. Like you could see, in the end, the dashboard 
could have a button that says, update my, you know, make sure I've got a auto 
close on all my repos. Yep.

Wes Todd  18:14  
Yeah. And so one of the things if you go to the projects, thing, So I haven't 
done this yet, but it's on my to do list, I have a to do list on the repo for 
this status word thing. So I got a bunch of badges here. I'm not sure how 
valuable all of them are. But what I really want to add is things like little 
icons for does it have TypeScript typing's? Does it have any we could add this 
kind of thing doesn't have his auto clothes bought enabled? So you could then 
look at the project and say, oh, which ones don't have it all go at it to those 
words. Yep. Right, or which ones don't have TypeScript type things today. If 
I'm the TypeScript person who's really into it, I'll go down this list. And 
just find anyone that doesn't and open a PR that that shows that. So so the 
idea would be to put more information in here, I know, it's already a busy 
page. So maybe there's some designer help that can be done.

Michael Dawson  19:04  
Just like get a watchers and stars Kind of like, versus some of those other 
things might be more helpful to the maintainer. Right?

Wes Todd  19:14  
I completely agree. I started with this, mostly because we had this thing 
called badge board. And it was being poorly maintained and had the restriction 
of was only worked on one organization. So I was hoping to do a little two 
birds with one stone here and make this a replacement for the badge board as 
well as, you know, centralization for all this other stuff. So this page is not 
optimal. I would love to get some design input on how we could make this more 
valuable ever.

Michael Dawson  19:42  
But Yeah, the concept of having that list and

you know, even Yeah, definitely.

And then you might even want to make it like, it seems to me want to actually 
change these over time, right? Like, you're if you're trying to roll something 
new out, for example, you might want to add in that, That new column near the 
front and push some other things tear to the end, or, Yeah, definitely. But 
generally, being able to get a view with all this stuff easily seems looks 
really useful. Because Yeah, I could see having a, you know, the, the package 
maintainer tool kit that we might build here, this would be a good piece of 
that, like, here's your dashboard, here's the dashboard you can start with.

LJHarb  20:31  
And I also thought

Wes Todd  20:32  
this might be valuable to like, individual containers, I don't know, I, you 
know, obviously thinking of use cases, but, you know, if you maintain 100 
packages, This could be a, you know, a way that he can you just like, promote 
to your, you know, he put it on your website and just say like, hey, look, you 
know, support me because I maintain all of these are, you know, I think there's 
a lot of use cases where we're listing this kind of stuff and having a good 
view in here as maybe even

Michael Dawson  20:59  
just tap, just you know, so you can keep keep an eye on some aspects of all 
your packages that are important to you. Yep. Okay, so it sounds like our 
concrete. Next actions are just going to open that other issue. And then we'll 
we'll review next week to see if we're ready to start to promote specific 
things that sound great.

Edgar  21:21  
I opened both issues for selecting and implementing the mot. So let me know if 
I should change it to just selecting and discussing and then another ticket for 
actually implementing or That way we don't have tickets that are UNCLOS, 
Audible for extended periods of time.

Whatever works, Things

LJHarb  21:43  
seems fine to me. Cool, cool.

Darcy Clarke  21:48  
Okay, So,

Unknown Speaker  21:50  
back to

Darcy Clarke  21:53  
If I can get back to Okay, we're gonna be able to get back to my minutes.

Michael Dawson  22:00  
Okay, actually, it wasn't sure that so Okay, so there we go back to the 
minutes. Let me just Yep. Okay, good. I see a few. So actions. Next, wait till 
next week to get ready to cry to promote krY.

LJHarb  22:22  
Word submission.

Darcy Clarke  22:28  
Okay, thanks for that overview.

So The next thing on the agenda is open GSB Foundation project progression.

Michael Dawson  22:38  
You put that on the agenda here?

Darcy Clarke  22:49  
I think it was done. Dominic kiss, you added that.

dominykas  22:57  
Me which 138?

Michael Dawson  23:16  
Sorry, is to 38 I think I just

Darcy Clarke  23:19  
hear I can share that one for a second here.

I'm blinked out for a second.

Michael Dawson  23:49  
Sounds like this was just added to make sure we think about how it relates to 
this particular group.

Glenn Hinks  24:01  
I think the

Michael Dawson  24:03  
the there's definitely some synergy. What I think is, though, that not all 
packages will necessarily join a fount you know, a foundation or even the open 
jazz foundation. So the the group that we would, you know, the foundation that 
will be foundation members is probably a subset of the packages that we 
potentially want to target, helping. The Foundation has had some discuss, there 
have been some discussions that level sort of like a GS comments, which would 
be like resources and help for, you know, beyond just members, so maybe there's 
some some overlap or synergy, or as that gets ramped up that there hasn't 
really been too much work at that level yet.

dominykas  24:52  
Right? Would it make sense for me to find whichever document we have that 
documents the progression of how you get this group in law, and I suppose I'll 
just add a link to, to whatever document is on open GSK Foundation. And we can 
then close this issue. And then I guess for Now we can remove the label for the 
agenda, right?

Michael Dawson  25:17  
Yes, That makes sense to me, unless anybody else has a suggestion.

Edgar  25:25  
Sounds good.

Darcy Clarke  25:27  
Okay, so we'll do that.

going on. Okay.

Links

Glenn Hinks  25:43  
to?

Michael Dawson  25:54  
Okay, so the next one on our agenda is standard grammar keywords for reference 
to know GS release lines.

Darcy Clarke  26:09  
So as I remember,

We had a list.

And on this one, I think the Bethany was going to give us some feedback from 
the elite, Right. Yeah,

Michael Dawson  26:30  
I think otherwise, in parallel, We've also incorporated into our

into our

support package information.

dominykas  26:43  
Yeah.

Darcy Clarke  26:46  
Midway, our ad document.

The release, the release meeting will be at 29. So we can watch what they will 
decide. Okay.

Michael Dawson  27:03  
Okay, So at this point, probably not too much for us to discuss the meeting 
itself or waiting for that feedback. And I think it's still worth you know, we 
can always adjust our support documentation package, the supporting phone the 
package, because it's still a draft. So we don't necessarily need to balk on 
that. But it will wait in this feedback and then incorporate it makes sense.

Darcy Clarke  27:29  
Absolutely.

Michael Dawson  27:31  
Okay, then I think we can move on to the next issue was discussion of the 
support file itself?

which we've had a bunch of discussion back and forth. I'm just going to scroll 
down to the very bottom. Sorry, go ahead.

Darcy Clarke  27:47  
Yes, there are some new comments in the past days.

Michael Dawson  27:57  
Right. Are those comments? Like I think some of the comments were still about 
around the discussion of whether it should be like in line in the package or a 
dynamic link? Right.

Darcy Clarke  28:11  
Exactly. Exactly.

Market? Oh, I think that

we could match

going on with the

discussion, maybe in other requests, or with new ideas of from the feedback 
that we read the rest?

Yeah, my mic. Sorry. Go ahead.

Wes Todd  28:36  
I just said I second that I think we can I think we can merge the question. 
There were new entrance into the conversation. And I think we have it went over 
all of their concerns at some point or another, but not a valid concerns, we 
just have already at least partially addressed them. And we, if we hold up, you 
know, just because we're waiting on new people, I think it'd be just easier 
just to make edits, Once we merge it, and it will be to, you know, continue to 
hold this

LJHarb  29:06  
very long issued along, you know, how many comments on this right?

Wes Todd  29:11  
It makes it harder to manage so.

Michael Dawson  29:15  
So I'm just typing in, I think you should be able to see it. So our plan would 
be the land does, is it this draft? Still anyways.

So then I think we want to write up

Darcy Clarke  29:29  
the log,

Which which produces introduces, introduces it along

Glenn Hinks  29:43  
with some of

Darcy Clarke  29:47  
the contentious

Michael Dawson  29:50  
points, You know, live non live, right. So basically says to get that, and I 
think that's one of the comments was providing that context, along with the doc 
is actually quite useful. So if we actually wrote up a blog that says, hey, 
we've been working on this, This is what we've currently got, here's the 
discussions we've already had, in terms of, you know, should we do this? Should 
we do this, this is the rationale for why we chose what's there now. And then 
basically use that to drive like, because, you know, we thought this was at 
least you know, our group, the core group has a consensus on what we look like. 
Now Let's get the broader consensus and to sort of drive that, that review 
through, say, some blog posts with the additional context. And then hopefully, 
use that feedback, to revise and then promote it to,

to non draft.

Darcy Clarke  30:51  
And I just wanted to add from the gym. So we're really looking forward to 
having some sort of solution for this. As a lot of people will have realized 
most recently, that there's been some progression in the community for trying 
to get funding and sort of support landed and some experiments that are being 
had. And we're fully admit, couldn't be here on this call. So I'm sort of 
standing in here on his behalf from NPR. But we're, we're totally behind 
getting something like this landed and supporting it as quickly as possible. 
And so I'll be also contributing, I think, to this discussion after this 
meeting, with a few things that are, you know, I think we could potentially 
update to make this

more rounded a spec.

Michael Dawson  31:47  
Sounds good. Certainly, at some point, we're hoping we can get like MPM and 
debt or something like that to give populate the default values for these 
things.

LJHarb  31:57  
And Darcy, as well, I think there's an open RFC by Katie Mitchell, for a 
sustainability property that sort of

dominykas  32:05  
overlaps.

LJHarb  32:07  
Like, technically conflicts, but spiritually overlaps with with this proposal. 
So it would probably be useful if, if NPR is planning on adopting this 
proposal, you know, with or without your suggestions, it would probably be 
useful to at some point soon indicate that on that RFC,

Wes Todd  32:26  
For sure, I dropped the link to that I added the head the tab open. I got the 
link to that in the chat. Also, I am they they are going to have a little 
Google Hangout or something, I don't know, sometime next month, I'm on the 
invite for that. So I told them that I would bring their, you know, ideas and 
feedback, I said, I could be a conduit from from them to this group. So I think 
are awesome. And Ken Mitchell and mix, mix Irvine, I think and a few others, 
just sort of, I think they want to continue with their experiments. You know, 
God bless them for doing that for the community, because it's obviously drawing 
a lot of ire from people. You know, go Go for it. But I might not want to be on 
the forefront of that. But I'm happy to take any, you know, input they have and 
bring it back to this group. And then, you know, I linked to them, I posted an 
issue in that funding repo that said, Hey, do you want to collaborate? And I 
think for said, Yeah, and he asked us when the next meeting of this was, I 
posted a link to this. I don't know if he was able to watch her join. But But I 
think the overlap is, is strong, and I think they're interested in 
participating in the bigger,

Unknown Speaker  33:41  
you know, picture stuff as well.

Michael Dawson  33:45  
Okay, that sounds great. I in terms of the link, that was was it one of the 
seven that you talked about? No, that was the Okay, that was the one that was 
potentially, you know, we've got already got it in the minutes. Thank you. 
Perfect. Okay.

Wes Todd  34:00  
Well, somebody submitted it. Yeah, um, they are you talking about the funding? 
repo one, because there's also I opened an issue to ask if they wanted to 
collaborate with our group and the funding, which is the real, the one that

Darcy Clarke  34:14  
you have that it would be good. Let me find that really quick. Yeah.

Michael Dawson  34:45  
Okay, They said it. So I guess the question is, is ok, we probably need

dominykas  34:52  
a

Michael Dawson  34:53  
volunteers to start working on that blog post. I'm willing to volunteer but it 
would be good to have maybe a few people work on it.

Darcy Clarke  35:07  
I can help out if you want, Michael.

Okay, Who is that? That's Darcy

Darcy. Okay, though. I'm not officially on. I guess the this team

been watching for?

Darcy Clarke  35:20  
Sure. Hey, anybody else?

I guess we already had. I can't see.

Wes Todd  35:30  
Just to point out being on this team is a pull request away. So

Michael Dawson  35:33  
Exactly. Yeah, it's not summit manual. We already had you lined up, I think to 
write a blog post for something right. I'm Turner.

Darcy Clarke  35:44  
Yeah, for sure. I can have. Okay,

So like I say, Michael, so.

Glenn Hinks  35:54  
So Yeah, Glenn. I'm a I've got over all my other volunteers and things I've 
done this summer. I'm available again. So I'd love to chip in to be careful 
what to volunteer for in the future, though.

dominykas  36:07  
Okay.

Michael Dawson  36:08  
Okay. Sure. So I got there see myself manual on Glenn. And if anybody else is 
interested, just let me know. Otherwise, I'll send something out to get the 
guests working on that

LJHarb  36:19  
Review of just not to write Yeah, I'm sorry, going in and saying I'd be glad to 
prove it.

Michael Dawson  36:25  
Yeah, what absolutely, we'll put something together and get the the overall 
team send it. Or like probably an issue in this repo. So everybody can comment 
and help improve it before it actually goes at. And so and just to confirm, 
like, it sounds like we're all comfortable landing, that doesn't mean there's 
no objections in the tissue itself. But if nobody has any here, we'll go ahead 
and land that and then move on to the the blog post is the next issue. Next 
step.

Darcy Clarke  36:55  
I just think we brought up an issue last week about I think was last week or 
the week before for the target. Again, the grammar was just one thing that we 
want to make sure that we're being inclusive there. And then I've also tried to 
looking over what the spec is like the way it is right now. I mean, I'm okay 
with landing it and then maybe making revisions for

Michael Dawson  37:18  
that. Absolutely. Like, Yeah, Do you want to open a PR as soon as we get it 
landed? That way we can sort of discuss pieces in in more specific consumable 
Did you have like, but if there's something you want us to discuss a little bit 
now with that would be good to?

Darcy Clarke  37:35  
Uh, yeah, maybe just the difference? Because I'm catching up on some of the 
conversation here. The difference between, let's say, engines and target. And 
the consideration of the singer Kramer vs.

Existing sort of know,

operations that we have to support sort of package versions.

Michael Dawson  38:01  
Right. So engines? Yeah, so engines is a list of.

So we're, you're saying okay, maybe we should use engines Instead? It was that 
the?

Darcy Clarke  38:12  
Yeah, I'm wondering, one the spec the way it's written now, is it to allow for 
multiple support entries in that object?

Michael Dawson  38:24  
Yes. So if we have in in the targets, See, you can have multiple, so support 
entry. So you can definitely say that like, for this particular target, Here's 
what we have for support, and then have something different, like, let's see if 
we go with the very top. So you end up with versions. So and each version in 
that each entry in there is something that has things that will qualify based 
on version target response and so forth.

Darcy Clarke  39:00  
Yes, Just nomenclature, maybe, because engines is already used. And also then 
you would have, maybe the grammar would be less contentious than because he 
would be utilizing like, actual version numbers and like,

Michael Dawson  39:19  
well, let's see, it's the so what we've ended up in targets is that and we 
namespace that. So that like you can have the target D it's now a namespace 
then then array. So you could use something else for that was one of the the 
key discussions was we didn't want it to be just note specific. So you can have 
whatever they face, we've only defined what it should be for node.

And now it does include

September version, so you can specify individual versions. But then we did 
define, you know, these other things like LTS active LTS active, and we thought 
that was important because we want people to be able to specify an intent 
without having to update it every time. No changes. So right, like, you know, 
if a version of it Of note goes out of LTS, you don't necessarily want to 
update your support policy if what your intent is, is that I support all the 
LTS versions.

Darcy Clarke  40:21  
So that's not covered by like a carrot operator?

Michael Dawson  40:26  
Uh, well, not necessarily because like, you know, LTS versions are, say 1011. 
And 12. Or sorry, are like 810 and 12, but not 11. So which they're not 
necessarily sequential.

Darcy Clarke  40:43  
And the ability to put an array in there as well, though, That's as far as a

Michael Dawson  40:48  
Yes. So you could you could, you know, if you want to say the current LTS 
versions, you could easily put together through this one, which the century 
which is the cyber range, like a basically it xxx is an array of similar 
ranges. But we don't want people to have to change that. So like, if if LTS is 
currently 810 and 12, or sorry, it's currently 810. As as of October, it will 
be 10 and 12. And we don't want people to have to change their entry, which was 
like a range you would have to do right eight? For sure.

Darcy Clarke  41:25  
Yeah, look at this again. But I think I don't really have any blockers. I think 
probably just there would be like minor revisions to

Michael Dawson  41:34  
Okay. Sounds good. So Yeah, if because, you know, if engines can do all of 
this, then I think we're always for using something that exists. So Yeah, take 
a look. And then you submitted PR for what you think would make sense.

Wes Todd  41:50  
But one thing I didn't think about until you just brought this up here is 
getting this when the LTS window shifts. A So if you drop support for node 
eight, When the LTS window shifts, that's a major version bump, you can't get 
around, you have to change it. Right. So, you know, this doesn't necessarily 
come through for that, and I didn't think about until now. So we should maybe. 
Do we feel like that would need to be resolved before remerge? Or are we all 
right?

Michael Dawson  42:20  
Well, follow that up with. But It's like, this comes back to the contentious 
issue of you can change your support level whenever you want. Yeah,

LJHarb  42:30  
but it still my December major change in like, So I think, be like if you put 
in LTS, If you put in, let's say LTS active and then

are putting maintained and then eight drops off.

You unless you have published a major version, you're still obligated to 
maintain support for no date on that package. Now you can say no warning, which 
means you didn't want the way to say that your packages compliant with some bar 
and you don't want to piss off your entire user base.

Darcy Clarke  43:05  
Yeah, it's kind of the contracts that you're right there with your user base. 
And that's kind of like this is a brand new part of that contract that you 
make. So Yeah, I sort of see where folks are,

LJHarb  43:17  
I wonder if maybe we live in the same way we have regular dash and where you 
can put in any value. And then as you're coming to wonder if we could change 
these keywords to indicate the lowest current like the lowest current value or 
something, or a you know, like so you could say like LTS active colon 10. And 
then it's all the current LTS actives, since 10 was active or something, or I 
don't know if that's too much complexity, maybe we should just drop the 
keywords and we should just use December Ranges

dominykas  43:54  
Regarding the keywords, So

the actual motivations, that a specific release supports, is a fixed thing, 
right? If it is, if for example, you have expressed for its supports, note six, 
eight and 10. Right, if you want to drop notice, you need to bump major. 
However, the support field and the keywords, They indicate the intent and the 
policy of what you intend to do. So I'm October, We will start supporting 12 
which is not a member major, right. But you say we support LTS active which 
means come October we will support those 12. And whether you maintain support 
for node eight, when nobody stops off. The intent in your policies say that, 
you know, we will support active LTS releases. Once a day drops off, all bets 
are off. That's The only thing that it says right. And once nowadays kind of 
drops off the of their support, and you do want to drop the support for 
nowadays, then you publish assembler major, and then you no longer support 
notice. But in the support policy field, you you say that LPs active means that 
when the new OBS comes out, we both are supporting it. And when the OBS drops 
off, we may or may not support it anymore, but we don't have a commitment to 
support it. Now, when we talk support, we will have to fund major, which we 
don't have a commitment to continue supporting this version.

LJHarb  45:21  
But there is a commitment there to to in that. Like if you're in v1 and eight 
drops off. There is a commitment to not publish a version of the one after 
that, that does not support no date. Correct. And there is a I think it's worth 
considering that like that may not be super apparent to everyone. Like right 
now it's really obvious when you change your engines value or when you delete a 
matrix from Travis MMO. That he like, it's really obvious that you're dropping 
support for a node version. And in pull requests and stuff, it may not be 
apparent and if like ci just invisibly stops running on note eight people may 
publish a one point x and not realize that they've broken note eight.

dominykas  46:05  
Yeah, so so so to the two fields are complimentary, right one means, which 
meant version two and then central been visit several matrix is mandatory when 
you actually dropped.

Wes Todd  46:17  
And so I think it's also trivial to say that for packages that are intending to 
maintain support, they can have LTS and some range in an array. Right? So the 
change there would actually be pretty simple is when the wind shifts, If the 
maintainer cares to say, Yeah, I still do commit to supporting this. All they 
have to do is do a PR that makes it take changes it from the string LTS to an 
array of eight comma LTS right, or whatever the you know, the road is.

LJHarb  46:45  
And that's kind of the thing, though, is that the best practice that we should 
be encouraging should not be just casually drop support for something the 
instant it goes, do it? Well, that's there may be some people that agree that 
think that that should be the best practice. But I would say there's not 
consensus on that both in this group and in the wider community. And we 
shouldn't come up with We should be careful not to come up with a version a 
scheme that implicitly pushes one of the sides of that debate. In the same way 
we've tried to avoid committing to a decision on the like files or Cynthia 
ignore stuff. And I think we've made the right choice there. In not implicitly 
privileging one of the sides of that debate. I think we should do that here 
too. And like at some point, like sure, I could put LTS comma, eight. And then 
you know, I've supported committed to supporting eight, even when it drops off, 
right, you do LTS, and then eight and then 10. Right. But The and that would 
achieve the good semantic that no one disagrees with us as new things enter 
LTS, we definitely support them. But that at that point, you're kind of 
defeating the purpose of having the keyword because then I can just like add 12 
when it goes into LTS manually. And like documenting intent is useful. But 
there's two incentive or one is the attempt to add support for new things as 
they enter a category, which is great, No controversy there. The other is the 
intention to rock support for things as they leave a category. And that's 
something that I think it is really important to not be implicit to not be 
silent. Like It should be an explicit manual choice in order to drop that 
support. And it's totally fine. If you want to do that. But then you should be 
doing that alongside December major. And the way I think to, to encourage doing 
that with December major is forcing your explicit decision. I don't know how to 
do that with the keywords,

Michael Dawson  48:34  
Right, I think you could add additional keep, like maybe not with the existing 
keywords. Other than having to, you know, I think you could express that, as 
you've already said, but then you'd have to actually change things. So I think 
adding potentially adding some keywords or qualifiers. So that might make 
sense. You know, so that could be a PR to add those additional keat quality 
keywords slash qualifiers to express that intent, because our goal is to let 
you most easily express the intent of what you're going to be doing going 
forward.

dominykas  49:06  
And it's not just that the

other back to consumer, When I open up the package for the first time, I want 
to see what's going to happen with that package In The next year, right. So 
just as you know, at the end of the year, you might add eight to the list. And 
you will say that we support a ton of it. But you would also like to say that 
we will not indefinitely support node eight, right? And and you do need to 
express that as well. So this is just providing the vocabulary to express 
certain things. So the key words that they do have their place there, in terms 
of of letting people say these things, right? Because nobody would ever expect 
anybody to keep maintaining six or no dates, and definitely,

LJHarb  49:52  
I do six and all my packages, and definitely, I broke

dominykas  49:58  
down to two.

This is this is truly the right commitment, but not all of us can afford to do 
that.

So Yeah, So Yeah, I think time check. Right now.

Michael Dawson  50:12  
So yeah, so maybe I suggest

if you can submit a PR that adds or modifies those those keywords to so that we 
you know, probably I'm thinking like add some keywords so that you can cover 
that. Hey, I want I want I will add new LTS is, but I'll continue to support 
everything else. You know that I think that's the best way to cover that 
because we've obviously got a bit of a gap.

Wes Todd  50:38  
Yeah. And I think to be clear, we're going to emerge this, that PR will be an 
independent.

Michael Dawson  50:43  
Yes. Yeah, I think that'll make that'll make it easier to say, Okay, here, we 
need to add this for these few things. Yeah. So I'll still like after this 
meeting, I'll go ahead and land this, Then I'll expect the number of prs to go 
in and start modifying these things that we still need to discuss. Okay, sounds 
good. Um, yeah, thanks for the time check, Emily. Okay, so let's move on to the 
next issue, which is

Darcy Clarke  51:08  
support field to support license.

Wes Todd  51:16  
I assume we're going to time box this with the time check. So should we maybe 
take a quick look at the remaining thing and see if there's anything that's 
pressing instead of just

Michael Dawson  51:24  
a good idea? Because we're down to two minutes, aren't we?

Wes Todd  51:27  
Yeah. Yeah, like we make time to do one thing.

Michael Dawson  51:30  
Yeah. So basically, we've got you know, I think you could share my screen these 
are the things that are still tagged as anybody call it one of them in 
particular that we need to dive into.

Joel Chip  51:46  
Michael, I just want to point out that no 165 Brenda blocking somebody a PR and 
it's under review as ELJ heart as make some comments. I'll be

Glenn Hinks  51:57  
reading and

Michael Dawson  51:59  
watching those comments after meeting.

In the other things, because I think otherwise we probably are out of time and

Darcy Clarke  52:11  
4218 for example, can be closed. See when we will nurture the two to zero. Okay.

200

to two zero. Yeah, Yeah, exactly. Okay.

Then This one is

Glenn Hinks  52:40  
PR, pure submitted.

Darcy Clarke  52:49  
Any others?

Michael Dawson  52:56  
Okay, if not, I think Yeah, we'll leave everything else to next time since 
we're at four o'clock almost. Exactly. Thanks to everybody for taking the time 
to to join in and have a good discussion and look forward to talking to 
everybody again next time.

Glenn Hinks  53:13  
I go.

Darcy Clarke  53:14  
Okay, thanks. Bye Bye.

